today on our test or learning about
positive and negative space with dr.
Terry Ellen today's class was at
American Union Elementary School in
Easton art is was made possible by a
grant from the Bonner Family Foundation
in support of the arts and education
good morning boys and girls it's a
pleasure to be here with you this
morning we're going to have a lesson
today in art and character education and
language arts we're going to also do cut
paper design and we're also going to
discover the notion of positive and
negative space in art so let's start
with that positive and negative space
it's kind of hard to describe sometimes
but look at me where I'm standing you're
seeing me aren't you okay my body takes
up space okay but there's a spot where
there is no space right here under this
arm that's negative space so let's take
a look at a couple of works of art that
show what negative space and positive
space are take a look at this picture
right here this is by Paul clay and he
has created this design that repeats all
throughout the picture and in it is
positive and negative space if you look
at this piece right here this yellow one
the area that's that comes between these
two yellow legs so to speak is negative
space up here we have a similar one it's
hidden behind that one but the red is
the positive space and the grey
background is the negative space okay
over here we have a piece by a man named
MC Escher this guy is terrific but take
a look at this picture notice all of
those things that are on there what what
do you see in this picture Celeste you
see birds okay can you describe those
bridges a little bit someone else Erica
they sort of look like doves don't think
okay yes Laura like the white stuff your
customer first of the open space of the
other birds
okay Laura has noticed debt there are
green birds on here but they're also
what other color white or light colored
birds so if I say look at the green
birds those become the
positive space and the white birds
become the base now I say look at the
look at the white birds what happens to
the green birds they become the negative
space isn't that interesting
so positive and negative space one
cannot work without the other positive
and negative space together create the
image that we're looking for and I have
a couple of really good examples to show
you one of them is a book that I'm going
to read to you it's very short but it's
very very clever it's a book called
round trip and it's by Anne Jonas and I
want you to just watch it and see what
happens
we started out as soon as it was light
our neighborhood was quiet the houses
dark the Sun shone on the pond town was
empty the stores still closed we watched
as the Sun set time to turn around and
watch this the sky was dark lights came
on all over the city back on the street
we looked up where we had been then we
had dinner in a restaurant is this
imaginative or what here you see a
restaurant because when I say the word
restaurant your eyes pick up the
positive space of the restaurant but
when I was reading it earlier it was a
what a movie theater and I say the word
movie theater and you see the stuff that
becomes the theater pretty amazing isn't
it this lady is a very clever lady and
we picked up our car from the garage we
left the shining starlit city what was
it before isn't that interesting
this is an example again of how positive
and negative space works today using
positive and negative space we're going
to create a way to show someone that you
care and what do we send to people to
show that we care about them
Father's Day card Judy an invitation oh
there we go a birthday card look at all
of the occasions in which we send cards
and there's a there's a there are
companies that make a good living by
selling cards and here a couple of
examples of them and in these both of
these cards they use positive and
negative space this one is really kind
of fun this one uses real negative space
in other words it actually has a hole in
the card it has a shape to it that lets
you know what's coming in on the inside
so here we have a birthday card that
shows a birthday cake on the front and
you will put it up and what's on the
inside absolutely
okay now so let's get ready for our
activity today each of you has a set of
rectangles small rectangles I would like
you to take out this is a review for you
the primary colored shapes take out the
primary colors and set them aside and
it's okay to check amongst each other to
see if you've got this right there
should only be three what colors do we
have they're yellow red and blue so if
those are the primary colors one of the
other colors card called the purple and
the orange and the green oh let's see
ELISA
they're called secondary colors exactly
and those are what are they ELISA orange
purple and green okay so now what I want
you to do is to make a triangle of your
primary colors in front of you now just
as a little test I would like you to put
orange between the two colors or so that
it touches the two colors that make it
we know that primary colors are used
when you mix them together to create new
colors so what two colors does your
orange touch okay Erika yellow and red
now put the green where it touches the
two cards that the two colors that make
it
okay now put the last one where it
belongs
the purple goes where what two colors is
a touch and jerilyn how about you red
and blue excellent